##Long non-coding RNA Malat1 is essential for fine-tuning bone homeostasis through orchestrating cellular crosstalk and the β-catenin-OPG/Jagged1 pathway
Single cell RNAseq datasets for bone (GSM3674239, GSM3674240, GSM3674241, GSM3674242) and bone marrow (GSM3674243, GSM3674244, GSM3674246) were downloaded from GSE128423 41. Seurat package 58 was applied for downstream analysis. Briefly, genes expressed in fewer than 3 cells and cells with less than 500 genes were filtered out. Cells with over 10% mitochondrial reads and exceeding 6,000 nFeature_RNA were excluded. After NormalizeData, the top 5000 variable genes were selected based on dispersion method using FindVariableGenes function of Seurat package. Subsequently, data scaling was performed using the ScaleData function. All datasets were integrated based on the identified anchors. The first 30 principal components for both UMAP (Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection) and the subsequent application of a graph-based clustering approach were used, with resolution at 0.1. The Clustree function was executed to understand how the structure of clusters changes across different resolutions. The FindAllMarkers function was utilized with parameters set to prioritizing positive markers expressed in at least 10% of cells within a cluster and exhibiting a log-fold change threshold of 0.25. The following gene markers were also included for cluster annotation: Acan, Col2a1 and Sox9 for chondrocytes 41; Acta2, Myh11 and Mcam for pericytes 41; Adipoq, Lepr, Cxcl12, Cebpa, Kitl and Lpl for Adipoq-lineage progenitors 59; Prrx1, Col1a1, Ibsp and Bglap for osteoblast lineage 59; Pecam1 and Cdh5 for endothelial cells 59; Cd19 for B cells 59; S100a8 for neutrophils 59; Mpz, Mbp and Plp1 for Schwann cells 60; Gypa, Alas2, Snca, Hbb-bs, Hbb-bt, Car1, Car2, Klf1, Gata1 and Gata2 for Erythroid cells 61-64; Pf4, Itga2b and Fli1 for Megakaryocytes 64; Cd68, Lyz2, Ly6c2 and Sell for Monocyte-Macrophage lineage59,65. We utilized Seurat's FeaturePlot to visualize gene expression in individual cells. DotPlot was employed to illustrate the percentage of cells in a cluster expressing a specific gene and to visualize the average scaled expression level of each gene. The distribution of normalized gene expression levels across all cells in each cluster was visualized using VlnPlot function in Seurat. R version 4.3.2 and Seurat 5.0.1 were used in the study.
